# Breaking Changes since 7/7/2017 
* Additional Q&A about breaking changes can be found [here](./breaking-changes.md) 
* To ask a question about breaking changes [use this](https://aka.ms/ask/ibiza-breaking-change)  


## 5.0.302.901
<table><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8904521'>8904521</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8904521'>[Editor] suggestions and error pop ups are not visible for large typescript files in the editor</a><p></div>
<div>&nbsp;</div>
<div>The enum value for &quot;Jade&quot; has been changed to &quot;Pub&quot; under MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Documents.Editor.ContentType. Additionally, the enum has now been changed from a regular enum to a const enum in order to reduce the JavaScript file size.</div>
<div>&nbsp;</div>
<div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='https://msazure.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/One/_queries?id=1512165'>1512165</a></td><td><a href='https://msazure.visualstudio.com/DefaultCollection/One/_queries?id=1512165'>[SDK] Add build check so that extensions get an error when the framework dll is included in extension</a><p></p><p style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Tahoma, Arial, Verdana;font-size:12px;">A build error has been added when extensions directly reference to Microsoft.Portal.Framework.Client.dll. &nbsp;This assembly should not be referenced directly by extensions and should be removed. &nbsp;The TypeScript Definitions for Microsoft.Portal.Framework.Client.dll are shipped in the Microsoft.Portal.Tools NuGet package. and exist under /Client/Definition/Fx.d.ts.</p><p style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Tahoma, Arial, Verdana;font-size:12px;"><br></p><p style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Tahoma, Arial, Verdana;font-size:12px;">If you have a scenario where you need Microsoft.Portal.Framework.Client.dll please let us know.</p><p style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Tahoma, Arial, Verdana;font-size:12px;"><br></p><p style=""><font color="#000000" face="Segoe UI, Tahoma, Arial, Verdana"><span style="font-size:12px;">Microsoft.Portal.Tools.targets target named&nbsp;</span></font><span style="color:rgb(51, 51, 51);font-family:Consolas, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace;font-size:12px;background-color:rgba(172, 0, 0, 0.1);white-space:pre;">CheckTypeScriptToolsVersion has been renamed to </span><font color="#333333" face="Consolas, Courier New, monospace"><span style="font-size:12px;white-space:pre;">ExtensionConfigHealthChecks. if you have and explicit override this then you will need to also change the name.</span></font></p><p class=MsoNormal style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, Tahoma, Arial, Verdana;font-size:12px;"></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10234363'>10234363</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10234363'>Specify TypeConverter for AppRelativePath</a><p>A TypeConverter has been added to the AppRelativePath type. This changes will the way objects of that type are serialized and deserialized.</p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10233552'>10233552</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10233552'>ICM 46833682: [parseResourceDescriptor] API caches results - so if result is modified it results in</a><p><br>For the following ResourceTypesService helper methods. The return object now are all have readonly properties. <br>parseSubscriptionDescriptor<br>parseResourceGroupDescriptorHelper<br>parseResourceDescriptor<br>parseResourceManagerDescriptor<br>parseDeploymentDescriptor<br>parseTagDescriptor</p><p>Background: Performance background: In many blade open,&nbsp; paresResourceDescriptor is been call about 3-6x time per resource ID.&nbsp; For example, this parser been executed&nbsp; 4500 times when open a VM on a customer with 400 virtual machine.&nbsp; <br>To improve the performance, we will start to cache the parse result.&nbsp;&nbsp; and return the cache object.&nbsp; Less than 0.1% of all code will change the return object.&nbsp; <br>But ICM 46833682 indicate that that .1% does change the now cached parse result (thus incorrect).<br>To fix this, we change the interface to be read only to ensure compiler error occurs when the situation happen.<br>The remedy is easy, for that .1 % of code can use simply do a MsPortalFx.clone -- Build break will help the extension team to catch the situation.<br>For 4 month (start from 9/9/2017), Framework will continue to clone the object. At end of 4 month support, we should be able to remove the clone code to gain the performance back.<br></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10227953'>10227953</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10227953'>_addProperty method of the Properties Part ViewModel is inefficient</a><p></div><div>Extensions using the _addProperty method of the Properties Part ViewModel must switch to setProperties method.</div><div></p></td></tr></table>

## 5.0.302.859
<table><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9982749'>9982749</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9982749'>[Perf] Remove unused code from the d3.v3.js library loaded at startup</a><p></div><div><br></div><div>This change comes with the removal of the following controls :</div><div>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Visualization.Unsupported.MapV2</div><div>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Visualization.CsmTopology</div><div><br></div><div>These controls are not currently used by any extension and needed significant parts of the D3 library that were otherwise completely unused.</div><div><br></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9763552'>9763552</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9763552'>[EHS][EV2] Support for per cloud configurations</a><p></div><div>Only affect partner team who switched to EV2 before SDK version 5.0.302.836</div><div>The build process generated file names changed. 6h changed to PT6H, 24h changed to P1D.</div><div>For example:</div><div>&nbsp; Blackforest.ServiceModel.24h.json = &gt; Blackforest.ServiceModel.P1D.json</div><div>&nbsp; Mooncake.ServiceModel.6h.json = &gt; Mooncake.ServiceModel.PT6H.json</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10227953'>10227953</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10227953'>_addProperty method of the Properties Part ViewModel is inefficient</a><p></div><div>Extensions using the _addProperty method of the Properties Part ViewModel must switch to setProperties method.</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10208858'>10208858</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10208858'>Ensure control contracts consistently identify as a control</a><p></p><p class=MsoNormal style="MARGIN:0in 0in 0pt;">All references to the interface MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Control need to be changed to MsPortalFx.Control.</p><p class=MsoNormal style="MARGIN:0in 0in 0pt;"></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10140685'>10140685</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10140685'>[Breaking] obsolete low value classes in resource type parser and add caching to high usage methods</a><p></div><div>Each of the classes that were removed were merely shells around the corresponding interfaces. </div><div>This causes unnecessary bloat in the portal/framework code (which is loaded inside each extension).</div><div>Instead callers can use the interfaces directly when needed.</div><div><br></div><div>Service =&gt; IService<b></b><i></i><u></u><sub></sub><sup></sup><strike></strike><br></div><div>ResourceDescriptor =&gt; IResourceDescriptor</div><div>ResourceGroupDescriptor =&gt; IResourceGroupDescriptor</div><div>SubscriptionDescriptor =&gt; ISubscriptionDescriptor<br><br></div><div>DeploymentDescriptor =&gt; IDeploymentDescriptor<b></b><i></i><u></u><sub></sub><sup></sup><strike></strike><br></div><div>TagDescriptor =&gt; ITagDescriptor</div><div><br></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10101598'>10101598</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10101598'>[Ignite] Change notification click target to title & styling changes</a><p><div>To click a notification, now you need to click on the notification title (opposed to clicking <i>anywhere </i>on the notification). The CSharp &amp; TypeScript test frameworks have been updated accordingly.<br><div></p></td></tr></table>

## 5.0.302.851
<table><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10227953'>10227953</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=10227953'>_addProperty method of the Properties Part ViewModel is inefficient</a><p></div><div>Extensions using the _addProperty method of the Properties Part ViewModel must switch to setProperties method.</div><div></p></td></tr></table>

## 5.0.302.842
<table><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9983929'>9983929</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9983929'>Remove Obsolete APIs</a><p></div><div>APIs that have been obsolete for over 6 months have been removed.&nbsp; Extensions should have already been updated to the new APIs.&nbsp; This will only cause issues for extensions that ignored the Obsolete API compiler warnings and casted to use them.&nbsp; Here is a list of the affected APIs:</div><div><br></div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use MsPortalFx.isObject instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Data.Shared.isObject</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use MsPortalFx.isNullOrUndefined instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Data.Shared.isNullOrUndefined</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use MsPortalFx.areEqualDates instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Data.Shared.equalDates</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use MsPortalFx.isObservableArray instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Data.Shared.isObservableArray</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use MsPortalFx.areEqual instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Data.Shared.equalScalarValues</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. This is superceded by Extension.getVersion and Manifest.pageVersion.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.ManifestForAssetTypes.version</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.</div><div><span style="color:rgb(36, 39, 41);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Web&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Symbol&quot;, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, &quot;BBAlpha Sans&quot;, &quot;S60 Sans&quot;, Arial, sans-serif;font-size:15px;">* Please use&nbsp;</span><code style="margin:0px;padding:1px 5px;border:0px;font-stretch:inherit;font-size:13px;line-height:inherit;font-family:Consolas, Menlo, Monaco, &quot;Lucida Console&quot;, &quot;Liberation Mono&quot;, &quot;DejaVu Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Bitstream Vera Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace, sans-serif;vertical-align:baseline;background-color:rgb(239, 240, 241);white-space:pre-wrap;color:rgb(36, 39, 41);">MsPortalFx.Azure.getSelectedSubscriptions</code><span style="color:rgb(36, 39, 41);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Web&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Symbol&quot;, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, &quot;BBAlpha Sans&quot;, &quot;S60 Sans&quot;, Arial, sans-serif;font-size:15px;">&nbsp;to get the currently selected subscriptions&nbsp;</span></div><div><span style="color:rgb(36, 39, 41);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Web&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Symbol&quot;, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, &quot;BBAlpha Sans&quot;, &quot;S60 Sans&quot;, Arial, sans-serif;font-size:15px;">* and&nbsp;</span><code style="margin:0px;padding:1px 5px;border:0px;font-stretch:inherit;font-size:13px;line-height:inherit;font-family:Consolas, Menlo, Monaco, &quot;Lucida Console&quot;, &quot;Liberation Mono&quot;, &quot;DejaVu Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Bitstream Vera Sans Mono&quot;, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace, sans-serif;vertical-align:baseline;background-color:rgb(239, 240, 241);white-space:pre-wrap;color:rgb(36, 39, 41);">MsPortalFx.Azure.getAllSubscriptions</code><span style="color:rgb(36, 39, 41);font-family:&quot;Segoe UI&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Web&quot;, &quot;Segoe UI Symbol&quot;, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, &quot;BBAlpha Sans&quot;, &quot;S60 Sans&quot;, Arial, sans-serif;font-size:15px;">&nbsp;to get all the user subscriptions.</span><br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Extension.EntryPointContract.getService</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use FxImpl namespace instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>FxImpl.Base</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use FxImpl namespace instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.Internal</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete.&nbsp; Use lifetime manager instead to track the lifetime if required.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 1/12/2017<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Base._disposed</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Please use uri property instead.<br>&nbsp;* The url property will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Documents.Editor.JSONSchema.url</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Forms.EditableCombo.DropDownWidth<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Forms.EditableCombo.ViewModel.dropDownWidth<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.Base.EditableComboBoxViewModel.dropDownWidth</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Remove references to this type as it will not affect the grid appearance.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Lists.Grid.SelectableRowOptions.selectionStyle</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Please invoke render() method to re-render the donut instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Visualization.Donut.Contract.resetItems<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Visualization.Donut.ViewModel.resetItems<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Parts.Donut.ViewModel.resetItems</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Pass in the EditScopeAccessor into the constructor of your field instead of calling this method.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.Base.Input.setFieldValueAccessors</div><div><br>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use createEditScopeAccessor instead when calling constructors of form fields.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.Form.ViewModel.createFieldValueAccessor</div><div>/**<br>&nbsp;* Obsolete. Use setProperties instead.<br>&nbsp;* Will be removed after 4/2017.<br>&nbsp;*/<br>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Parts.Properties.ViewModel.addProperty<br></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9955517'>9955517</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9955517'>[BREAKING][InfoBox] Remove property 'clickableLink’ from BaseInfoBoxOptions. It should be accepted only by LinkInfoBox</a><p></div><div><p class=MsoNormal>When you see compile errors when passing the 'clickableLink'
option to your <b><span style="background-image:initial;background-position:initial;background-size:initial;background-repeat:initial;background-attachment:initial;background-origin:initial;background-clip:initial;">MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.InfoBox.ViewModel</span>
</b>class:</p>

<p class=MsoNormal>- (Typical) If you are passing an empty observable, you can safely
remove this 'clickableLink' option.</p>

<p class=MsoNormal>- (Latent bug) If you are passing an observable that you populate
with a value, then you are using the wrong view model class.&nbsp; Please refer to <b><span style="background-image:initial;background-position:initial;background-size:initial;background-repeat:initial;background-attachment:initial;background-origin:initial;background-clip:initial;">MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.InfoBox.LinkViewModel</span> </b>where
this 'clickableLink' option is supported.</p></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9925044'>9925044</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9925044'>[Uservoice] Expose chart range or xslider value on click</a><p></p><p><br>In Chart view model, there is a events property where plotArea related events like Click, MouseEnter, MouseLeave can be monitorored by providing a callback. <br>The breacking change is related to the plotArea events callback property.</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * This class defines the input data for the chart, axes and its properties.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; export class ViewModel&lt;TX, TY&gt; extends Loadable.ViewModel implements Contract&lt;TX, TY&gt; {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ...<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ...</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * Events supported by the control.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; public events = new Events&lt;TX, TY&gt;();</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ...<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; ...<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }</p><p>The original event callback had the following signature, <br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; export interface ChartEventCallBack {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (x?: number, y?: number): void;<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }</p><p>This has been updated to have additional information which provides the actual x and y axis data values with the following signature,<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; export interface ChartEventCallbackEx&lt;TX, TY&gt; {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; (x?: number, y?: number, xValue?: TX, yValue?: TY): void;<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }</p><p>Old event contract,<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; export interface EventsContract&lt;TX, TY&gt; {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * MouseEnter on the plot area.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; plotAreaMouseEnter: ChartEventCallback;</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * MouseLeave on the plot area.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; plotAreaMouseLeave: ChartEventCallback;</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * MouseLeave on the plot area.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; plotAreaClick: ChartEventCallback;<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }</p><p>New event contract,<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; export interface EventsContract&lt;TX, TY&gt; {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * MouseEnter on the plot area.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; plotAreaMouseEnter: ChartEventCallbackEx&lt;TX, TY&gt;;</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * MouseLeave on the plot area.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; plotAreaMouseLeave: ChartEventCallbackEx&lt;TX, TY&gt;;</p><p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; /**<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; * MouseLeave on the plot area.<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; */<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; plotAreaClick: ChartEventCallbackEx&lt;TX, TY&gt;;<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; }</p><p>This doesn't break runtime compatibility.<br>Even for compile time, partners using the event callback explicitly may be impacted if they explicitly reference the EventsContract or ChartEventCallback.<br>Partners just need to replace the event callback with the new signature if they notice any compile time break. Otherwise, it will continue to work without any changes.</p><p><br></p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9908480'>9908480</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9908480'>Avoid pinning ASP.NET NameValueCollection to reduce memory usage</a><p></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">NameValueCollection objects may have a strong reference to an HttpRequest object. </font><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">All uses of NameValueCollection in the framework have been changed to IReadOnlyQueryString to avoid any accidental GC rooting.</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9863628'>9863628</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9863628'>Clicking on a link of type "javascript:" should not open that link (even in a different window)</a><p></strong></p><p>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Parts.Properties.LinkProperty will sanitize non-absolute URIs.&nbsp;</p><p>Extension authors should update any links that were not starting with &quot;http://&quot; or &quot;https://&quot;, or the link can't be clicked on.&nbsp;</p><p><strong></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9763552'>9763552</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9763552'>[EHS][EV2] Support for per cloud configurations</a><p></div><div>Only affect partner team who switched to EV2 before SDK version 5.0.302.836</div><div>The build process generated file names changed. 6h changed to PT6H, 24h changed to P1D.</div><div>For example:</div><div>&nbsp; Blackforest.ServiceModel.24h.json = &gt; Blackforest.ServiceModel.P1D.json</div><div>&nbsp; Mooncake.ServiceModel.6h.json = &gt; Mooncake.ServiceModel.PT6H.json</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9721018'>9721018</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9721018'>Add unit tests to check options for legacy dropdowns</a><p></div><div>The property `resourceTypes` was redundant for the FxObsolete/Controls/LocationDropDown options. Please use the property `resourceTypesObservable`</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9713648'>9713648</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9713648'>Implement endpoint resource type routing in PDL and browse</a><p></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">In PDL, the 'Proxy' resource type routing (RoutingType attribute) has been renamed to 'Extension'.&nbsp; If you currently have RoutingType=&quot;Proxy&quot;, change it to RoutingType=&quot;Extension&quot;.</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"><br></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">In PDL, the 'ProvideProxyResources' attribute on the resource type has been renamed to 'ExtensionProvidesResources'.&nbsp; If you currently have ProviderProxyResources=&quot;true&quot;, change this to ExtensionProvidesResources=&quot;true&quot;.</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"><br></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">In typescript, if your extension is providing resources and your asset type view model implemented&nbsp;ProvideProxyResourcesContract, change this to ProvidesResourcesContract (interface renamed).</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386989'>9386989</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386989'>Obosolete.Button - Delete if not being used. If being used Post to StackOverflow</a><p></p><p>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Forms.Button has been deprecated. Please update the control with&nbsp;MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.SimpleButton.</p><p>This link describes how to replace the Button control with SimpleButton:</p><p><a href="https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57192/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-button-control-o/57193#57193" aria-label="CTRL+Click or CTRL+Enter to follow link https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57192/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-button-control-o/57193#57193">https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57192/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-button-control-o/57193#57193</a></p><p><br></p><p>For Selenium tests, Please make sure the version of your Microsoft.Portal.TestFramework.CSharp is over <span style="text-decoration-line:underline;font-weight:bold;">1.0.58.0</span>,, and please replace FindElement&lt;Button&gt;() with FindElement&lt;SimpleButton&gt;() if possible.&nbsp;</p><p>This link describes how to fix the Selenium tests:</p><p><a href="https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57521/scenario-tests-createblade-findelementbutton-fails-to-find-button-on-the-bl" aria-label="CTRL+Click or CTRL+Enter to follow link https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57521/scenario-tests-createblade-findelementbutton-fails-to-find-button-on-the-bl">https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57521/scenario-tests-createblade-findelementbutton-fails-to-find-button-on-the-bl</a></p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8677098'>8677098</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8677098'>[Auth] Upgrade version of Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocol.Extensions and System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt for bug fixes</a><p></div><div><br></div><div>The portal framework has upgraded the version of the Jwt library. If you are using the following packages in your extension, you will need to update the versions being used.</div><div><br></div><div><p><strong>From:</strong></p><pre><code>&lt;package id=&quot;System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt&quot; version=&quot;4.0.0&quot; /&gt;</code></pre><pre><code><pre><code>&lt;package id=&quot;System.IdentityModel.Protocol.Extensions&quot; version=&quot;1.0.0&quot; /&gt;</code><b><i></i><u></u><sub></sub><sup></sup><strike></strike>
</b></pre></code></pre><p><strong>TO:</strong></p><pre><code>&lt;package id=&quot;System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt&quot; version=&quot;4.0.4.403061554&quot; /&gt;</code><pre><pre><code><code><code>&lt;package id=&quot;System.IdentityModel.Protocol.Extensions&quot; </code></code></code><code><code>version=&quot;1.0.4.403061554&quot; /&gt;</code></code></pre></pre></pre><pre></p></td></tr></table>

## 5.0.302.823
<table><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9721018'>9721018</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9721018'>Add unit tests to check options for legacy dropdowns</a><p></div><div>The property `resourceTypes` was redundant for the FxObsolete/Controls/LocationDropDown options. Please use the property `resourceTypesObservable`</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9713648'>9713648</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9713648'>Implement endpoint resource type routing in PDL and browse</a><p></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">In PDL, the 'Proxy' resource type routing (RoutingType attribute) has been renamed to 'Extension'.&nbsp; If you currently have RoutingType=&quot;Proxy&quot;, change it to RoutingType=&quot;Extension&quot;.</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"><br></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">In PDL, the 'ProvideProxyResources' attribute on the resource type has been renamed to 'ExtensionProvidesResources'.&nbsp; If you currently have ProviderProxyResources=&quot;true&quot;, change this to ExtensionProvidesResources=&quot;true&quot;.</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"><br></font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);">In typescript, if your extension is providing resources and your asset type view model implemented&nbsp;ProvideProxyResourcesContract, change this to ProvidesResourcesContract (interface renamed).</font></div><div><font style="background-color:rgb(255, 255, 255);"></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9665488'>9665488</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9665488'>Problem using the new ARM dropdowns (location, sub, rg) on a pdl'less template blade in SDK version .78</a><p></div><div><br></div><div>These options are part of the legacy options contract but are not applicable anymore to the legacy dropdowns:</div><div><div>opts.cssClass;</div><div>opts.dropDownWidth;</div><div>opts.filterOptions;</div><div>opts.hideValidationCheck;</div><div>opts.iconLookup;</div><div>opts.iconSize;</div><div>opts.infoBalloonContent;</div><div>opts.inputAlignment;</div><div>opts.labelPosition;</div><div>opts.options;</div><div>opts.popupAlignment;</div><div>opts.showValidationMessagesBelowControl;</div><div>opts.subLabel;</div><div>opts.subLabelPosition;</div><div>opts.telemetryKeys;</div><div>opts.viewModelValueChangesAreClean;</div><div>opts.visible;</div><div><br></div><div>This change removes them from the options contract on all the resource dropdowns. This is a compile-time breaking change so partners would stop setting those properties on the legacy options.</div></div><div><br></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9632739'>9632739</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9632739'>(Reverted) Upgrade version of WindowsAzure.Storage used by the Portal to 8.0.1</a><p></p><p class=MsoNormal>(NOTE: THE FOLLOWING BREAKING CHANGE HAS BEEN REVERTED)</p><p class=MsoNormal>Updating the version of WindowsAzure.Storage from 4.3.0 to 8.0.1.&nbsp;</p><p class=MsoNormal>SDK consumers may need to update nuget references and/or add binding redirects for one or more of the following DLLs that got updated as part of this change:</p><p class=MsoNormal>WindowsAzure.Storage&nbsp;4.3.0 to 8.0.1</p><p class=MsoNormal>System.Spatial 5.6.3 to 5.7.0</p><p class=MsoNormal>Microsoft.Data.Edm 5.6.3 to 5.7.0</p><p class=MsoNormal>Microsoft.Data.OData 5.6.3 to 5.7.0</p><p class=MsoNormal>Microsoft.Data.Services.Client 5.6.3 to 5.7.0</p><p class=MsoNormal><br></p><p class=MsoNormal>Possible warnings encountered might include:</p><p class=MsoNormal>Warning MSB3247: Found conflicts between different versions of the same dependent assembly.<br>In Visual Studio, double-click this warning (or select it and press Enter) to fix the conflicts; otherwise, add the following binding redirects to the &quot;runtime&quot; node in the application configuration file: <br>&lt;assemblyBinding&gt; .... &lt;/assemblyBinding&gt; </p><div><b><i><br></i></b></div><p class=MsoNormal></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9581977'>9581977</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9581977'>Chrome 58 show ERR_INSECURE_RESPONSE when loading Ibiza extensions hosted in IISExpress</a><p></div><div><p>Starting in v58, Chrome now rejects the style of self-signed certs that VS uses when debugging sites hosted in IISExpress (often the case when debugging Ibiza extensions).</p><p><br></p><p>This first link describes the problem:   </p><p><a href="http://leighshayler.net/fixing-iis-express-developer-ssl-certificate-chrome-58-missing_subjectaltname/" rel="nofollow noreferrer">http://leighshayler.net/fixing-iis-express-developer-ssl-certificate-chrome-58-missing_subjectaltname/</a> </p><p><br></p><p>This second link is a PowerShell script from the ASP.NET team that fixes the problem:</p><p><a href="https://gist.github.com/blowdart/1cb907b68ed56bcf8498c16faff4221c" rel="nofollow noreferrer">https://gist.github.com/blowdart/1cb907b68ed56bcf8498c16faff4221c</a> </p><p><br></p><p>Check this StackOverflow question for possibly more up-to-date info on this problem:</p><p><a aria-label="CTRL+Click or CTRL+Enter to follow link https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/15194/ibiza-extension-unable-to-load-insecure" href="https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/15194/ibiza-extension-unable-to-load-insecure">https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/15194/ibiza-extension-unable-to-load-insecure </a></p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9522799'>9522799</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9522799'>Replace  MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.Selector.ViewModel2 with onClick callback in  MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.Selector.ViewModel</a><p></div><div>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.Selector.ViewModel2 has a older style API called supplyBladeReference. &nbsp;&nbsp; This API has been replaced with newer onClick/openBlade API.</div><div><br></div><div>So code which has something like -</div><div><br></div><div>new ViewModel2({&nbsp;</div><div>&nbsp;supplyBladeReference: () =&gt; new SomeBladeReference()</div><div>});</div><div><br></div><div>Should instead be changed to be&nbsp;</div><div><br></div><div>new ViewModel({</div><div>&nbsp; onClick: () =&gt; container.openBlade(new SomeBladeReference())</div><div>});</div><div><br></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9503117'>9503117</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9503117'>[DropDown] MultiItemDisplayText needs to be observable</a><p></div><div>Updated the type of&nbsp;multiItemDisplayText to &quot;string | KnockoutObservableBase&lt;string&gt;&quot;.</div><div>Extensions will need to cast the results when accessing the VM.</div><div><br></div><div><div style="color:rgb(212, 212, 212);background-color:rgb(30, 30, 30);font-family:Consolas, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace;font-size:14px;line-height:19px;white-space:pre;">(&lt;KnockoutObservableBase&lt;string&gt;&gt;viewModel.multiItemDisplayText)</div></div><div style="color:rgb(212, 212, 212);background-color:rgb(30, 30, 30);font-family:Consolas, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace;font-size:14px;line-height:19px;white-space:pre;">or </div><div style="color:rgb(212, 212, 212);background-color:rgb(30, 30, 30);font-family:Consolas, &quot;Courier New&quot;, monospace;font-size:14px;line-height:19px;white-space:pre;"><div style="line-height:19px;">(&lt;string&gt;viewModel.multiItemDisplayText)</div></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9461172'>9461172</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9461172'>hard obsolete Gauge control</a><p>&nbsp;</div><div><div>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Visualization.Gauge is now obsoleted, will be removed from code base in 4 months.</div><div>Use&nbsp;MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Visualization.SingleValueGauge as a replacement if you're using Gauge</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9447421'>9447421</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9447421'>remove DiscussionTimeline control</a><p>&nbsp;</div><div><div>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Documents.DiscussionTimeline is removed</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9444842'>9444842</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9444842'>remove difflist and diffview control</a><p>&nbsp;</div><div><div>- MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Documents.DiffList</div><div>-&nbsp;MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Documents.DiffView</div><div>- above 2 controls are removed</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9437102'>9437102</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9437102'>hard obsolete Obsolete.FileUpload control</a><p></p><div>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Obsolete.Controls.Forms.FileUpload control is deprecated, compilation error will be raised if you're using it. Please use MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.AsyncFileUpload as a replacement</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386989'>9386989</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386989'>Obosolete.Button - Delete if not being used. If being used Post to StackOverflow</a><p></p><p>MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Forms.Button has been deprecated. Please update the control with&nbsp;MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.SimpleButton.</p><p>This link describes how to replace the Button control with SimpleButton:</p><p><a href="https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57192/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-button-control-o/57193#57193" aria-label="CTRL+Click or CTRL+Enter to follow link https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57192/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-button-control-o/57193#57193">https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57192/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-button-control-o/57193#57193</a></p><p><br></p><p>For Selenium tests, Please make sure the version of your Microsoft.Portal.TestFramework.CSharp is over <span style="text-decoration-line:underline;font-weight:bold;">1.0.58.0</span>,, and please replace FindElement&lt;Button&gt;() with FindElement&lt;SimpleButton&gt;() if possible.&nbsp;</p><p>This link describes how to fix the Selenium tests:</p><p><a href="https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57521/scenario-tests-createblade-findelementbutton-fails-to-find-button-on-the-bl" aria-label="CTRL+Click or CTRL+Enter to follow link https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57521/scenario-tests-createblade-findelementbutton-fails-to-find-button-on-the-bl">https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/57521/scenario-tests-createblade-findelementbutton-fails-to-find-button-on-the-bl</a></p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386979'>9386979</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386979'>Obsolete.TextBox ( check if this is being used) if not delete</a><p>&nbsp;</p><p>- The `MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Controls.Forms.TextBox` control is being deprecated. When you update your Ibiza SDK to a newer version, you will see compile-time errors reflecting this.</p><p>- To migrate to new Textbox controls, please see&nbsp;https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/51898/how-to-replace-my-use-of-msportalfx-viewmodels-controls-forms-textbox-control-on/51901#51901 or&nbsp;https://github.com/Azure/portaldocs/blob/master/portal-sdk/generated/portalfx-controls-textbox.md</p><p></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386846'>9386846</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9386846'>Obosolete.DateTimeComboBox migration post on StackOverflow</a><p>&nbsp;</p><div><div>- MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Obsolete.Controls.Forms.DateTimeCombo has been deprecated</div><div>-&nbsp;MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Obsolete.Forms.DateTimeComboBox has been deprecated</div><div>- Please use MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.DateTimePicker or&nbsp;MsPortalFx.ViewModels.Forms.DateTimeRangePicker instead. And more information here:&nbsp;https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/51150/how-do-i-replace-my-use-of-the-datetimecombobox-control-on-my-blade/51160#51160</div></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9213742'>9213742</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9213742'>[Browse filtering]: All the filters should use new dropdown control</a><p> </div><div>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; This change upgrades resource filter control to use new accessible dropdown control. If you see any issues with C# tests not being able to find dropdown controls in resource filter, please upgrade C# test framework to version 1.0.51.0 or newer.</div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8882287'>8882287</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8882287'>[grid1] Editable formatters need to be able to get aria-labels</a><p></b></font></span></p><p style="margin:0in 0in 8pt;"><span style="font-size:14.66px;"><font color="#222222" face="Calibri, sans-serif">The dropdown formatter in editable grids now uses the widget for the accessible amd dropdown rather than the old dropdown widget. &nbsp;There are no api changes for extension code, but UI tests may begin to fail if testing the dropdown inside of editable grids. &nbsp;Using the GroupDropDown test class will resolve these issues.</font></span></p><p style="margin:0in 0in 8pt;"><span style="font-size:14.66px;"><font color="#222222" face="Calibri, sans-serif">Also, there is a behavioral change where we no longer automatically select the first item if there is no value defined. &nbsp;This is overall cleaner for when users don't select anything and we end up making the edit scope dirty.</font></span></p><p style="margin:0in 0in 8pt;"><span style="font-size:14.66px;"><font color="#222222" face="Calibri, sans-serif"><b></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8812953'>8812953</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8812953'>Add 'onPin' functionality to no-PDL Blades</a><p></div><div>For Blades developed with no-PDL TypeScript decorators, you'll see a compile error that resembles:</div><blockquote style="margin-right:0px;" dir=ltr><div>Configure the 'Pin to Dashboard' behavior for this TemplateBlade by either: (1) applying the '@TemplateBlade.Pinnable.Decorator' decorator and implementing an 'onPin' method or (2) supplying 'isPinnable: false' to the '@TemplateBlade.Decorator' decorator.</div></blockquote><div>Here, you'll now have to explicitly opt-into pinning support by following (1) above:</div><blockquote style="margin-right:0px;" dir=ltr><div>@TemplateBlade.Decorator({ ... })</div><div>@TemplateBlade.Pinnable.Decorator()</div><div>export class MyBlade {</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; ...</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; public onPin() {</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; return new PartReferences.MyBladePinnedPart(...);</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; }</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; ...</div><div>}</div></blockquote><div>See the new SamplesExtension at:</div><div>Portal: http://localhost:55555/Portal/#blade/SamplesExtension/PinnableBlade/personId/111</div><div>for details.</div><div>Source code: SamplesExtension/Extension/Client/V2/Blades/Pinning/PinnableBlade.ts</div><div><br></div><div>...or explicitly opt-out following (2) above:</div><div><blockquote style="margin-right:0px;" dir=ltr><div>@TemplateBlade.Decorator({</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; ...</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; isPinnable: false</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; ...</div><div>})</div><div>export class MyBlade {</div><div>&nbsp; &nbsp; ...</div><div>}</div></blockquote></div><div><b><br></b></div><div></p></td></tr><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8677098'>8677098</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=8677098'>[Auth] Upgrade version of Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocol.Extensions and System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt for bug fixes</a><p></div>
<div><br></div>
<div>The portal framework has upgraded the version of the Jwt library. If you are using the following packages in your extension, you will need to update the versions being used.</div>
<div><br></div>
<div>
<p><strong>From:</strong></p>
<p><strong></strong>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&lt;package id=&quot;System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt&quot; version=&quot;4.0.0&quot; /&gt;</p>
<p>&lt;package id=&quot;Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocol.Extensions&quot; version=&quot;1.0.0&quot; /&gt;</p>
<p><strong></strong>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>To:</strong></p>
<p><strong></strong>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&lt;package id=&quot;System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt&quot; version=&quot;4.0.4.403061554&quot; /&gt;</p>
<p>&lt;package id=&quot;Microsoft.IdentityModel.Protocol.Extensions&quot; version=&quot;1.0.4.403061554&quot; /&gt;</p></div>
<p><b><br></b></p>
<p></p></td></tr></table>

## 5.0.302.818
<table><tr><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9763552'>9763552</a></td><td><a href='http://vstfrd:8080/Azure/RD/_workitems#_a=edit&id=9763552'>[EHS][EV2] Support for per cloud configurations</a><p></div><div>Only affect partner team who switched to EV2 before SDK version 5.0.302.836</div><div>The build process generated file names changed. 6h changed to PT6H, 24h changed to P1D.</div><div>For example:</div><div>&nbsp; Blackforest.ServiceModel.24h.json = &gt; Blackforest.ServiceModel.P1D.json</div><div>&nbsp; Mooncake.ServiceModel.6h.json = &gt; Mooncake.ServiceModel.PT6H.json</div><div></p></td></tr></table>