

<a name="frequently-asked-questions"></a>
## Frequently asked questions

<!-- TODO:  FAQ Format is ###Link, ***title***, Description, Solution, 3 Asterisks -->


<a name="frequently-asked-questions-content-unbundler-throws-aggregate-exception"></a>
### Content Unbundler throws aggregate exception

***Content Unbundler throws an Aggregate Exception during build.***

This usually happens when the build output generated by content unbundler is different from expected format.  The solution is as follows.

1. Verify build output directory is called **bin**
1. Verify you can point IIS to **bin** directory and load extension

For more information, see [portalfx-extensions-hosting-service-overview.md#prerequisites-for-onboarding-hosting-service](portalfx-extensions-hosting-service-overview.md#prerequisites-for-onboarding-hosting-service).

* * *

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-finding-old-ux-after-deployment"></a>
### Finding old UX After Deployment

***Some customers of my extension are finding the old UX even after deploying the latest package. Is there a bug in hosting service ?***

No this is not a bug. All clients will not get the new version as soon as it gets deployed. The new version is only served when the customer refreshes the Portal. We have seen customers that keep the Portal open for long periods of time. In such scenarios, when customer loads the extension they are going to get the old version that has been cached.
We have seen scenarios where customers did not refresh the Portal for 2 weeks. 

* * * 

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-friendly-name-support"></a>
### Friendly name support

***When will support for friendly names become available ?***

Azure support for friendly names became available in SDK release 5.0.302.834.

* * *

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-how-extensions-are-served"></a>
### How extensions are served

***How does hosting service serve my extension?***

The runtime component of the hosting service is hosted inside an Azure Cloud Service. When an extension onboards, a publicly accessible endpoint is provided by the extension developer which will contain the contents that the hosting service should serve. For the hosting service to pick them up, it will look for a file called `config.json` that has a specific schema described below. 

The hosting service will upload the config file, look into it to figure out which zip files it needs to download. There can be multiple versions of the extension referenced in `config.json`. The hosting service will upload them and unpack them on the local disk. After it has successfully uploaded and expanded all versions of the extension referenced in `config.json`, it will write `config.json` to disk.

For performance reasons, once a version is uploaded, it will not be uploaded again. 

* * * 

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-output-zip-file-incorrectly-named"></a>
### Output zip file incorrectly named

***When I build my project, the output zip is called HostingSvc.zip instead of \<some version>.zip.***

The primary cause of this issue is that your `web.config` appSetting for **IsDevelopmentMode** is `true`.  It needs to be set to `false`.  Most do this using a `web.Release.config` transform. For example,

```xml
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>

    <!-- For more information on using web.config transformation visit http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=125889 -->

    <configuration xmlns:xdt="http://schemas.microsoft.com/XML-Document-Transform">
      <appSettings>
        <!-- dont forget to ensure the Key is correct for your specific extension -->
        <add key="Microsoft.Portal.Extensions.Monitoring.ApplicationConfiguration.IsDevelopmentMode" value="false" xdt:Transform="SetAttributes" xdt:Locator="Match(key)"/>
      </appSettings>
    </configuration>

```

* * * 

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-rollout-time-for-stages"></a>
### Rollout time for stages

***How much time does hosting service take to rollout a new version of extension to the relevant stage?*** 

The hosting service takes about 5 minutes to publish the latest version to all data centers.

* * *


<a name="frequently-asked-questions-sas-tokens"></a>
### SAS Tokens

***Can I provide a SAS token instead of keyvault for EV2 to access the storage account ?***

The current rolloutspec generated by **ContentUnbundler** only provides support for using keyvault. If you would like to use SAS tokens, please submit a request on [user voice](https:\\aka.ms\portalfx\uservoice)

* * *

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-speed-up-test-cycles"></a>
### Speed up test cycles

***My local build is slow. How can I speed up the dev/test cycles ?***

The default F5 experience for extension development remains unchanged however with the addition of the **ContentUnbundler** target some teams prefer to optimize to only run it on official builds or when they set a flag to force it to run.  The following example demonstrates how the Azure Scheduler extension is doing this within **CoreXT**.

```xml
    <PropertyGroup>
        <ForceUnbundler>false</ForceUnbundler>
    </PropertyGroup>
    <Import Project="$(PkgMicrosoft_Portal_Tools_ContentUnbundler)\build\Microsoft.Portal.Tools.ContentUnbundler.targets" 
            Condition="'$(IsOfficialBuild)' == 'true' Or '$(ForceUnbundler)' == 'true'" />
```

* * * 

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-storage-account-registration"></a>
### Storage account registration

***Do I need to register a new storage account everytime I need to upload zip file ?***

No. Registering a storage account with the hosting service is one-time process, as specified in . This allows the hosting service to find the latest version of your extension.

* * * 

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-zip-file-replaced-in-storage-account"></a>
### Zip file replaced in storage account

***What happens if instead of publishing new version to my storage account I replace the zip file ?***

Hosting service will only serve the new versions of zip file. If you replace version `1.0.0.0.zip` with a new version of `1.0.0.0.zip`, then hosting service will not detect.
It is required that you publish new zip file with a different version number, for example `2.0.0.0.zip`, and update `config.json` to reflect that hosting service should service new version of extension.

Sample config.json for version 2.0.0.0

```json
    {
        "$version": "3",
        "stage1": "2.0.0.0",
        "stage2": "2.0.0.0",
        "stage3": "2.0.0.0",
        "stage4": "2.0.0.0",
        "stage5": "2.0.0.0",
    }
```
**NOTE**: This samples depicts that all stages are serving version 2.0.0.0.

* * * 

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-other-hosting-service-questions"></a>
### Other hosting service questions

***How can I ask questions about hosting service ?***

You can ask questions on Stackoverflow with the tag [ibiza-deployment](https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/tagged/ibiza-deployment).

* * * 