<a name="frequently-asked-questions-for-authoring-azure-documents"></a>
## Frequently asked questions for Authoring Azure Documents
<!-- Title is required, as a level 2 heading.  If appropriate, the phrase ' for <topic>' can be appended. -->

FAQ's are items that are encountered many times, and developer teams appreciate the opportunity to answer the question only once and then refer individuals to this best answer.

Best practices often result in improved performance, smaller software footprint, increased reusability, or similar factors. Some practices are documented in industry practice, like the ***Testing Computer Software*** textbook that is located at [https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220689439_Testing_computer_software_2_ed](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/220689439_Testing_computer_software_2_ed). Although Stackoverflow contains good ideas, it is a forum centered more around answering questions than providing best practices.

This document contains best practices, that are related to the topic whose name is a node in the filename. These practices did not fit in the overview discussion of the topic or subtopic, for whatever reasons. They also did not belong in a procedure document for the topic. If there are no best practices for a topic, this optional  document can be added when appropriate.

In the discussion, mention why these practices are considered best practices, or are good practice for the industry or within software development.  If some of these practices are results of usability studies, a sentence like the following is appropriate.

"This section also includes practices that are recommended based on customer feedback and usability studies."

Descriptions that are in other ***Best Practices*** documents should not be copied into this document.  Instead, summarize the procedure here and use a link to the content that is in the other document. These links are usually called out with the phrase "For more information, see . . . " and are the last sentence in the section.  



The format for a FAQ item is 
*  ###Link
*  ***title***
*  Description
* The word "SOLUTION:" followed by the Solution
*  3 Asterisks 
   

   ### SAS Tokens

***Can I provide a SAS token instead of keyvault for EV2 to access the storage account ?***

The current rolloutspec generated by **ContentUnbundler** only provides support for using keyvault. If you would like to use SAS tokens, please submit a request on [user voice](https:\\aka.ms\portalfx\uservoice)

* * *

***When will support for friendly names become available ?***

Azure support for friendly names became available in SDK release 5.0.302.834.

* * *

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-for-authoring-azure-documents-ssl-certificates"></a>
### SSL certificates

***How do I use SSL certs?***

[portalfx-extensions-faq-onboarding.md#sslCerts](portalfx-extensions-faq-onboarding.md#sslCerts)

* * *

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-for-authoring-azure-documents-loading-different-versions-of-an-extension"></a>
### Loading different versions of an extension

***How do I load different versions of an extension?***

Understanding which extension configuration to modify is located at [portalfx-extensions-configuration-overview.md#understanding-which-extension-configuration-to-modify](portalfx-extensions-configuration-overview.md#understanding-which-extension-configuration-to-modify).

* * *

<a name="frequently-asked-questions-for-authoring-azure-documents-other-debugging-questions"></a>
### Other debugging questions

***How can I ask questions about debugging ?***

You can ask questions on Stackoverflow with the tag [ibiza](https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/tagged/ibiza).

