## Frequently asked questions for Authoring Azure Documents
<!-- Title is required, as a level 2 heading.  If appropriate, the phrase ' for <topic>' can be appended. -->

FAQ's are items that are encountered many times, and developer teams appreciate the opportunity to answer the question only once and then direct individuals to this best answer.

The entire FAQ should be above the fold.  Any answer that requires scrolling to be read, at a normal default browser font size, should be added to the document topic or subtopic instead.

In some instances, the FAQ answer can contain the phrase "for more information about" and a link to the answer.  If the topic is complete, instead of writing a solution in the FAQ, just use the link.

The format for an FAQ item is comprised of the following five items. 

1.  ###Link

    The level-H3 heading is  a link to the FAQ so that other documents can use it to land on the page. The link can be crafted from the title, and should be less than about five words long.

1.  ***title***

    The title is styled in italics, and always ends with a question mark.  It is optional to begin the title with "Q: ". Titles that are obviously copied from sources like [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/tagged/ibiza) should not be edited unless they are very long.  If the title contains multiple questions, some of them can be removed after the answer is crafted.

1.  Description

    This field is optional when the title of the FAQ describes the entire situation. This content may be from sources like **Stackoverflow**. The author who provides the answer may choose to describe the situation in more detail.

1. The word "SOLUTION:" followed by the solution to the question. 

1.  Three Asterisks 

    This styling displays a separator between FAQ's.

* * *

### Sample FAQ Conversations

### SAS Tokens

***Can I provide a SAS token instead of keyvault for EV2 to access the storage account ?***

SOLUTION:
The current rolloutspec generated by **ContentUnbundler** only provides support for using keyvault. If you would like to use SAS tokens, please submit a request on [user voice](https:\\aka.ms\portalfx\uservoice).

* * *

###

***Q: When will support for friendly names become available ?***

Azure support for friendly names became available in SDK release 5.0.302.834.

* * *

### Other \<topic>  questions

***How can I ask questions about \<topic> ?***

You can ask questions on Stackoverflow with the tag [ibiza](https://stackoverflow.microsoft.com/questions/tagged/ibiza).

The Stackoverflow FAQ item should be included in every topic that contains an FAQ subtopic. For a list of Stackoverflow tags, see [portalfx-stackoverflow.md](portalfx-stackoverflow.md).

* * *